Chelishchev threw back the old blanket, got up from the sofa and did not know how he found himself on the plank floor - his legs did not support him at all.

Fedoseich did not even change his position, but continued to sip his tea.

Well done, you still remember the insurance, you group correctly in the fall... Why are you lying down?.. Come to the table. If you can't walk, crawl... Feel less sorry for yourself, think more about what needs to be done...

Sergei gritted his teeth and crawled to the table on all fours. As he climbed onto the bench, the old man poured a huge ceramic mug of some kind of hot concoction.

Drink. As soon as you finish your drink , I'll take you for a walk. You'll take care of yourself...

Chelishchev's herbal concoction made him break out in a hot sweat.

I have to go back to St. Petersburg tomorrow. Preferably in human form.

Tomorrow? It's a pity, just a couple more days, you would have become quite a cucumber for me... Well, tomorrow is tomorrow... Let's go for a walk now, then eat and sleep again. And the herbs will squeeze all the crap out of you. Relax now, you'll think later.

Fedoseich took Sergei for a walk all day, distracted him from his dark thoughts with conversations, and told him various funny cases from his coaching practice. As if by mutual agreement, they did not touch on the reasons that brought Chelishchev to the farm in such a bestial state... By evening, it was snowing. It clung to the branches of the trees in the garden in huge wet caps, bending them to the ground... The old man caught Sergei's eye on the snow-covered trees and asked:

Doesn't that remind you of anything, Seryozha?"

No. And what?  Chelishchev roused himself. Fedoseich paused and shook his head reproachfully.

Yes, you've forgotten a lot... The basic principle of ju-do was once discovered by a man who looked at snow-covered trees in the same way. The snow bends the branches, and in order not to break under the weight, they need to bend down to the ground. Then the snow itself will slide off, and the branches will straighten... The enemy's strength must be used against him.

What if there are too many opponents?

Too much is just not very scary: they will definitely interfere with each other. You just need to make the correct count of your movements. The winner is not the one who is the strongest, but the one who correctly concentrates his forces in the right direction...

I would like to know this direction, " Sergey said with a mirthless grin.

This knowledge lives in you, try to hear it... It is inherent in every person, but most do not want to take it into account...

They paused. The snow-covered branches swaying in the wind fascinated Sergey, as if hypnotizing him. There were familiar voices in the rustling snow and whistling wind...
